97th Floor SEO optimization (#2376)
pulumi/docs: content/docs/intro/vs/cloud_templates.md

---

> title: Pulumi vs. AWS CloudFormation and Other Templates | Pulumi

Reviewer: A while back, we used to auto-append "| Pulumi" to all page titles. Is that worth bringing back?

Author: There's room for adjusting to suit your brand, as it's not a super important SEO issue, but Moz does recommend the "| Brand Name" format for title tags in Google; it looks good and keeps things uniform, so that's what we typically recommend.

Reviewer 2: In most cases (including this page), we do indeed append this automatically, yep:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/274700/73801368-122b7000-476f-11ea-9686-c154b522bb38.png)

https://github.com/pulumi/docs/blob/master/layouts/partials/head.html#L66-L71

(So there's no need to specify these manually in frontmatter titles, @97thFloor.)

> meta_desc: This page gives an overview of the major differences between Pulumi and Cloud Templates such as AWS CloudFormation.

Reviewer 2: Caps are unnecessary, as cloud templates isn't a proper noun.

```suggestion
meta_desc: This page gives an overview of the major differences between Pulumi and cloud templates such as AWS CloudFormation.
```

aliases: ["/docs/reference/vs/cloud_templates/"]
---

> What is Pulumi?

Reviewer 2: Leading off with what sounds like an ad for Pulumi doesn't seem like the right thing, here, since these pages are aimed at delivering comparative info, and they'd seem to be working relatively well in that regard. I'd remove these headings and this introductory section and leave these pages structurally as they are today, unless breaking them up is solving a problem that can't be solved otherwise.

Author: It was mostly to get the "What is CloudFormation?" part in there, as that is the first snippet question on the SERP, and CloudFormation is the primary KW. The "What is Pulumi?" part was more to balance it out and provide a clearer structure, since this is a comparison page. Would it be ok to switch the order and lead with CloudFormation?

Pulumi offers a multi-cloud alternative to typical, more restrictive infrastructure-as-code template solutions, such as AWS CloudFormation. Pulumi allows you to streamline processes through managing resources from different platforms all in one place, using real code, in your favorite language.

What is CloudFormation?

All major cloud providers offer their own form of infrastructure-as-"code" solution, typically by way of JSON or
YAML-based templating solutions. This includes AWS CloudFormation and Azure Resource Manager (ARM) templates.

These markup-based configuration files are often uploaded to a hosted service in the target cloud, where a hosted
service will then process the files to create, update, or delete resources as necessary.

The Pulumi Difference

Pulumi's model shares a lot with these systems. Although Pulumi programs are written in imperative, familiar languages,
they are ultimately evaluated to produce a similar set of create, update, or delete operations for your cloud resources.

> This is where Pulumi begins to diverge from these other solutions such as AWS CloudFormation, however.

Author: Maybe "This is where Pulumi begins to diverge from solutions like AWS CloudFormation, however"?

> Pulumi lets you use your favorite languages — complete control rather than bespoke templating solutions such as CloudFormation. These templates typically use syntaxes that

Reviewer 2: This sentence is no longer clear. Should the dash be a colon? And "complete control" and "bespoke templating solutions" are not directly comparable enough to be separated with a "rather than". (In other words, languages and templating solutions are comparable, as they're both technologies. Control is not a technology.)

Author: It's probably fine to leave as is then, as long as we can still get the "CloudFormation" part in there.

configuration templates as a sort of "compilation" step. These offer nice syntactic sugar on top of the raw
templates, but the underlying model leaks through and carries forward all of the other abovementioned shortcomings.

> Finally, Pulumi is [open source](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi) and community-driven. All of the other cloud systems — such as Azure Automation or AWS CloudFormation — are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, Pulumi is [open source](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi) and community-driven. All of the other cloud systems — such as Azure Resource Manager or AWS CloudFormation — are
```
